the zhongnan mountains located in the
shangsi province in china
have been a dwelling place for taoist
hermits for at least more than 2
thousand years
for centuries they've been seeking
refuge from society
and for different reasons some pursued a
spiritual path
others wanted to reflect on the world
from a distance
and again others were mainly motivated
by a disgust
for the government hermits regardless of
why they've chosen their lifestyles may
have closed themselves off
from one world they've gained another a
world that's potentially much deeper
and fulfilling it's no surprise that
hermits have appeared in many cultures
in human history
another example are the christian desert
mothers like syncletica of alexandria
who abandoned the city and spent the
rest of her life in a crypt
or hindu philosopher ramana maharshi who
meditated for many years at a temple
and rabbi yosef yosel horowitz who spent
years of his life
in seclusion but even though a stronger
connection with god
and the prospect of enlightenment are
the grounds on which these hermits
secluded themselves
there's also a more mundane reason why
spending time alone can be beneficial
it's an opportunity for
self-transformation
being alone can be a transformative
experience
if we utilize it correctly which is
backed up by numerous accounts
in the field of psychology see links in
the description
as well as philosophy and spiritual
teachings like buddhism
now this video doesn't recommend
becoming a hermit nor
socially isolated in ways that are
unhealthy
and destructive or gives any advice for
that matter
solitude is a tool which can be used for
good and bad
in moderation and excess and this video
explores the benefits
that solitude can have the information
presented to you
is mainly based on the author's
reasoning and observations
supported by different sources
[Music]
one a chance for self-knowledge
when most people think of self-knowledge
they probably think about certain
characteristics
or ego constructs that they refer to as
themselves
these could be things like i'm a
confident person
i'm a funny person i'm not someone
people can mess with
the buddhists have a different approach
even though they don't even acknowledge
the existence of a fixed self they do
meditate to learn about the nature of
existence
including the tangle of thoughts and
emotions that we refer to
as the self as explained in another
video about meditation
the goal of meditation is not just
relaxing the body and the mind
but also gaining self-knowledge and
transforming the mind
meditators pay attention to their bodily
processes
thoughts and emotions as well as what is
happening around them
and how they react to this the benefit
of solitude in this case
is that it facilitates them to observe
and know things about themselves that
they usually do not see
in the noisy outside world interacting
with other people
what causes them to feel a certain way
what is the root
of their worries again it is often hard
to see
where certain thoughts and emotions
originate from
if we are always distracted by other
people in solitude however by sitting
with ourselves
we are able to discover what causes the
unpleasant mind states that we usually
run from
by embracing worldly distractions all
that we are
is the result of what we have thought it
is founded on our thoughts
it is made up of our thoughts a man's
life is
the direct result of his thought we
are what we think all that we are arises
with our thoughts with our thoughts we
make
the world end quote
so following the view of the buddha if
we want to control our experience
we have to control the mind this is not
an easy path
gaining true self knowledge means that
we inevitably face
our demons head on we see this as true
with a mechanism of addiction which is
an amplified form
of seeking pleasure to escape what is
happening in the present
the present moment is the place where
everything happens
according to buddhist teachings stoic
philosophy and many other views
of the reality of human existence
reality in this case
doesn't just refer to what's happening
around us but especially to what's
happening inside us
which is often overlooked our thoughts
our feelings
our emotions for example we think about
a certain event
that happened in the past this event
causes us pain
we may feel angry or anxious or sad
but these thoughts and sensations
concerning this event
all take place in the present an addict
in this situation
will immediately take his drug of choice
not so much because he likes it but
rather
to escape the pain that occurs to him in
the present
but what exactly are the thoughts that
trigger the addict
what emotions occur what negative
self-talk
does the addict engage in this is true
self-knowledge
according to buddhism which ideally can
be acquired in solitude
so we can put ourselves under a
magnifying glass with
minimal distraction 2 a chance to let go
of fixed views and group thing when we
associate with people it is
easy to get caught up in certain
ideologies
like mental states ideas are contagious
much more so
when we expose ourselves to people that
share the same world view
history has countless examples of people
that are so convinced of their
collective belief system that it seems
almost impossible for them
to open up to different points of view
the media
including online platforms play a huge
role in this
as they provide us with a stream of
information by exposing ourselves to
certain media
consistently we let them inject our
minds with the opinions
views and ideologies created by other
people
then like parrots we proudly repeat
these second-hand opinions
to our environment as if they are our
own
we can also see a tendency with people
to be drawn to certain information
sources that agree with the data that's
already stored
on their internal hard drives by
continual exposure to opinions
similar to the ones we already have
while ignoring those
that aren't in line with our own views
our existing views will only be
strengthened
this is how so-called echo chambers are
created
which are ultimate manifestations of
groupthink
in which exclusively like-minded people
participate
that mutually strengthen their shared
ideology
regardless of how flawed it may be
solitude on the other hand allows us to
detach ourselves
from such echo chambers as well as the
media outlets
we've been exposing ourselves to when we
spend some time
alone to reflect on the ideas we've been
taking for granted
we can find out if these ideas truly
align with our personal experiences
and with factual information we can
reflect on the usefulness
and destructiveness of ideas that
constitute hatred
what damage this will do to ourselves
and the world around us
even when this hatred seems justified
and if there are alternative ways
to deal with our environment a good
example of this
we can see in the movie american history
x when
neo-nazi derrick vineyard is separated
from the inductry nation
by the white supremacist movements he
was involved in
due to a prison sentence for voluntary
manslaughter
in prison he is involved with a similar
group for a while
called the aryan brotherhood but after a
dramatic breakup
from those he thought were his brothers
he spends a great deal
of his prison sentence alone with enough
time to reflect
and he also becomes friends with an
afro-american inmate
this all changes him it makes him see
how wrong his ideas actually are
when spending time alone we can open
ourselves up to alternative views
new ideas and can transform the way we
see the world
and our role in it three
an opportunity to become more
self-sufficient
we all depend on the people around us to
some degree
even if it's just for the simple fact
that one person cannot exist without two
other people
procreating but some people seem to feel
forsaken
and helpless when there's no one by
their side even if it's just for a short
period
they need to be in the company of others
all the time and can't stand the idea
of being alone with our thoughts such
people
are overly dependent on others beyond
the degree
of what's reasonable and truly necessary
in order to survive
especially in a modern world we don't
need to be in the presence of other
people
all the time in most cases in many
individualistic and highly developed
countries it's not even required to
leave the house
and speak to people anymore to get our
basic needs met
psychologist and author daniel marston
states in an article
it is useful to consider how much social
interaction
and social connection is actually
required to survive
and even enjoy life there actually is
very little
required you have to be able to interact
with others
to get things done but really there's
not much else you need
many people may prefer more and that is
fine but
many people may also prefer less and
that is fine as well
and quote when we think of it how much
social interaction do we actually need
of course
this is different for every person but
how often are we hanging out with people
not because we like them but simply
because we don't want to be alone
and is this feeling of deficiency we
might experience in solitude
caused by the solitude itself or by the
belief
that we need company do we believe
that we're somehow insufficient when
there's no one around
if that's the case we rely on the
presence of other people
to feel sufficient which is an
unreliable way to operate
when we long for company it means that
we're dissatisfied
with what is as we've added a
problematic element to the fact
that we're for example alone on a
saturday night
so it's not always the solitude that's
the problem but how we think about it
by embracing solitude however we can
learn to appreciate it
so it's not a problem but something
neutral or even pleasurable
we can use the time we spend alone as a
practice
to transform into more self-sufficient
people
meaning that we learn to rely less on
others and are able to fulfill many of
our needs
on our own also instead of experiencing
ourselves
as empty vessels that need to be filled
by others
we find ways to fill them ourselves so
we don't need others for experiencing a
sense of completeness
and contentment the idea that everything
we need
to feel contentment is already within us
is supported by the many people who have
experienced
this first hand poet fernando pessoa
once wrote
freedom is the possibility of isolation
you are free
if you can withdraw from people not
having to seek them out
for the sake of money company love
glory or curiosity none of which can
thrive in silence and solitude
if you can't live alone you were born a
slave you may have
all the splendors of the mind and the
soul in which case
you're a noble slave or an intelligent
servant but you're not
free end quote even though human beings
are interdependent in many ways and
social isolation can be harmful
the value of spending time alone is
something to ponder upon
if we want to know ourselves better
become more authentic
and independent thinkers and generally
more skillful
in the art of solitude spending time
alone
can be an investment with high returns
thank you for watching
[Music]
you